1.What are the built-in data types in Python?
ans:There are multiples built-in data types in Python. They are int,  float, complex, bool, list, tuple, set, dict, str.

2.What’s the difference between list and tuple?
ans: Both list and tuple are used to store the collection of objects. The main difference between the list and tuple is “the list is mutable object whereas tuple is an immutable object.

3.What are mutable and immutable data types?
ans: Mutable data types can be changed after creating them. Some of the mutable objects in Python are list, set, dict.
Immutable data types can’t be changed after creating them. Some of the immutable objects in Python are str, tuple.

4.Explain some methods of the list?
ans: 1. append – the method is used to add an element to the list. It adds the element to the end of the list.
2. pop – the method is used to remove an element from the list. It will remove the last element if we don’t provide any index as an argument or remove the element at the index if we provide an argument.
3. remove – the method is used to remove an element from the list. We need to provide the element as an argument that we want to remove from the list. It removes the first occurrence of the element from the list.
4.sort – the method used to sort the list in ascending or descending order.
5. reverse – the method is used to reverse the list elements.

5.What’s the negative indexing in lists?
ans:The index is used to access the element from the lists. Normal indexing of the list starts from 0.

6.What is slicing in Python?
ans:Slicing is used to access the subarray from a sequence data type. It returns the data from the sequence data type based on the arguments we provide. It returns the same data type as the source data type.
Slicing accepts three arguments. They are the start index, end index, and increment step. The syntax of slicing is variable[start:end:step]. Arguments are not mandatory for slicing. You can specify an empty colon (:) which returns the entire data as the result.

7.How do you implement the functionality of switch statements in Python?
ans:We can implement the functionality of switch statements using if and elif statements.
    if a == 1:
        print(...)
    elif a == 2:
        print(....)
8:What are break and continue statements?
ans:break – the break statement is used to terminate the running loop. The execution of the code will jump to the outside of the break loop.
         for i in range(5):
             if i == 3:
                break
             print(i)
continue – the continue statement is used to skip the execution of the remaining code. The code after the continue statement doesn’t execute in the current iteration, and the execution goes to the next iteration.
           for i in range(5):
              if i == 3:
                  continue
              print(i)
9. How does the range function work?
ans:The range function returns the sequence of numbers between the start to stop with a step increment. The syntax of the range function is range(start,stop,step).
The stop argument is mandatory. The arguments start and step are optional. The default value of start and step are 0 and 1, respectively.

10.What is the lambda function?
ans:Lambda functions are small anonymous functions in Python. It has single expressions and accepts multiples arguments.
         add = lambda a, b: a + b
         add(1, 3)
11.How is inheritance and Overriding methods are related?
ans:If class A is a subclass of class B, then everything in B is accessible in /by class A. In addition, class A can define methods that are unavailable in B, and also it is able to override methods in B. For Instance, If class B and class A both contain a method.

12.How to create a variable?
ans:Unlike other programming languages, Python has no command for declaring a variable.A variable is created the moment you first assign a value to it.

13.What are the global variables?
ans:Variables that are created outside a function are known as global variables. Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside of functions and outside.

14.What is the difference between iterator and iterable?
ans:Lists, tuples, dictionaries, and sets are all iterable objects. They are iterable containers from where you can get an iterator. All these objects have a iter() method which is used to get an iterator.

15.What is list comprehension?
ans:List comprehensions give a way to create the list. It will always return a list.

16.What is the range()?
ans:The range() is a function in Python that accepts an integer value as an argument and returns a range object, which is nothing but a sequence of integers till the specified value.

17.What is open() function in python file handling?
ans:It is a very important function for working with files in python. It takes 2 parameters namely, filename and mode.

18.bytes, bytearray, memoryview are type of the ___ data type.
ans: Binary Types

19.How memory can be managed in Python?
ans:In Python, the memory is managed using the Python Memory Manager. The manager allocates memory in the form of a private heap space dedicated to Python. All objects are now stored in this Hype and due to its private feature, it is restricted from the programmer.

20.How do you use the split method in Python?
ans:The split method is used to separate strings in Python





